Data 180 **Study guide for Exam 1:**
This list is created to help you study for exam 1. 
*Disclaimer:* The topics listed here may not be fully comprehensive. You should refer to
the notes posted on GitHub, as they form the main source material.

Topic 1: Data Science
What is Data Science?
What do data scientists do with data on a regular basis? 
Compare supervised/unsupervised learning.
What is Git and GitHub? Why do data scientists use it?
Where do data come from?
Compare parameter/statistic.
Be able to find unit of observation given a data set.
What are variable types?
Identify if a variable is categorical (nominal/ordinal) or numeric (discrete/cont)
What is a data matrix? What is a data frame?
What are the mean measures of center? Explain how each is calculated and why
some are more appropriate than others in certain settings.
What is skewness? Identify the direction of skewness given a distribution.

Topic 2: R
Be able to,
Create a scalar, vector, list, dataframe object.
Declare a factor variable with custom levels.
Access an element of an object using position and/or header name.
Make operations on a vector or matrix, e.g. multiply/divide by a scalar, replace/add elements.
Create a custom function that can accomplish a given task/operation.
Construct if/else statements.
Use a for loop to achieve a given task/operation.
Display the first n rows of a data frame object.
Return the number of rows, columns of a data frame.
Return unique values/levels of a variable.
Return basic statistics (mean, median..) in a data frame.

Topic 3: Visualization
What is bar graph, pie chart, stem/leaf plot, dotplot, histogram, scatterplot? Identify 
for what variable type(s) each can be used.
Find the rule of thumb number of bars for a histogram. Implement it in R.
Be able to,
Create the graphs above using base R.
Create a bar graph, box plot, histogram, scatterplot using ggplot2.
Use conditional coloring in base R and ggplot2.
Create multiple graphs side by side in base R and conditional plots side by side in ggplot2.
Customize axis labels, range, title, graph color, label size in base R and ggplot2.